# birdsEye

## Annotation system

The annotation system is a 2-stage process in the command line: (i.) the user 
parses the flight dataset from the ROS2-native `bag` file format into a sqlite 
database using the ROS2 node `sub_node`, then (ii.) the user passes the resulting 
database to the script, `birdsEye.py`, to run the geotag detection and image 
annotation processes.

### 0. Calibrate birdsEye optics and odometry systems
Here, thar be monsters...

### i. Parsing from ROS2 to SQLite
First and foremost, the software establishes the following file structure on each
run (deleting the contents of an existing instance, if one is present):
```
~/
|__ parsed_flight/
   |__ flight_data.db
```

Moreover, it assumes the following file structure in the home directory:
```
~/
|__ bE_config/
|  |__ data.csv  // the geotags to be associated with this flight's imagery
|__ ros2_ws/
   |__ build/
   |__ install/
   |  |__ setup.bash
   |__ log/
   |__ src/
      |__ birdseye/ // clone of this repo
      |__ robot_localization/  // clone of git@github.com:cra-ros-pkg/robot_localization.git
```

This step reqires the user to provide the file(s) in the `bE_config` directory. The 
call to the birdsEye ROS2 node, `sub_node`, will require, at minimum, a path to a valid 
ROS2 bag file containing flight data. To run `sub_node`, a user can use the following
command line invokation:
```
source ~/ros2_ws/install/setup.bash
ros2 launch ~/ros2_ws/src/birdseye/launch/dualEKF_birdseye.launch.py bagpath:=[/path/to/data]
```
This command will take as long as ROS2 takes to play back the flight (can be
accelereated/decelerated w.r.t. real time playback), and will result in the following
file structure in the user's home directory:
```
~/
|__ parsed_flight/
|  |__ flight_data.db  // generated by sub_node's execution
|
|__ bE_config/
|  |__ data.csv  // the geotags to be associated with this flight's imagery
|
|__ ros2_ws/
   |__ build/
   |__ install/
   |  |__ setup.bash
   |
   |__ log/
   |__ src/
      |__ birdseye/  // clone of this repo
      |__ robot_localization/  // clone of git@github.com:cra-ros-pkg/robot_localization.git
```

The full set of arguments exposed at the command line for `dualEKF_birdseye.launch.py` is
as follows:

`bagpath`: filepath to flight data file. Defaults to a filepath which will never be right. REQUIRED.

`rl_launch_path`: filepath to the `robot_localization` state estimators' ROS2 launch script.
        Defaults to `~/ros2_ws/src/birdseye/launch/dualEKF_navsat_gx5.launch.py`.
        
`be_launch_path`: filepath to the `sub_node` ROS2 launch script.
        Defaults to `~/src/birdseye/launch/subNode.launch.py`.

`sensorID`: `sub_node` parameter, designating the ROS2 `frame_id` for the camera associated 
        with this sub_node instance. Defaults to `cam0`.
        
`cam_topic`: `sub_node` parameter, designating the ROS2 topic associated with the imagery
        from the camera associated with this `sub_node` instance. Defaults to 
        `/cam0/rgb_cam/image_raw`.
        
`sensors_yaml`: `sub_node` parameter, designating the filepath to `birdsEyeSensorParams.yaml`.
        Defaults to `~/ros2_ws/src/birdseye/config/birdsEyeSensorParams.yaml`.
        
`clicks_csv`: `sub_node` parameter, designating the filepath to `data.csv`, the file containing
        the geotag data to be associated with this flight's imagery.
        Defaults to a filepath which will never be right, from my laptop. REQUIRED.

### ii. Running birdsEye

## Path planning

The process of generating a new path involves physically collecting 
"clicks" of latitudes/longitudes, then feeding the CSV file generated by the
clicks  into the `GPS_path_planner.py` script which generates a KML-formatted
flight plan.

USAGE:
```bash
$ cd ./birdseye/
$ python3 GPS_path_planner.py --input=${CSV_IN}.csv --output=${KML_OUT}.kml
```

In the above:
- `${CSV_IN}` is the path to the input "clicks",
- `${KML_OUT}` is the path to the output/drone-readable KML-formatted flight 
plan.


### GPS\_path\_planner.py - Usage

To see the list of available options for this script, type:
```bash
$ python3 GPS_path_planner.py --help
```

## Name
Choose a self-explaining name for your project.

## Description
Let people know what your project can do specifically. Provide context and add a link to any reference visitors might be unfamiliar with. A list of Features or a Background subsection can also be added here. If there are alternatives to your project, this is a good place to list differentiating factors.

## Badges
On some READMEs, you may see small images that convey metadata, such as whether or not all the tests are passing for the project. You can use Shields to add some to your README. Many services also have instructions for adding a badge.

## Visuals
Depending on what you are making, it can be a good idea to include screenshots or even a video (you'll frequently see GIFs rather than actual videos). Tools like ttygif can help, but check out Asciinema for a more sophisticated method.

## Installation
Within a particular ecosystem, there may be a common way of installing things, such as using Yarn, NuGet, or Homebrew. However, consider the possibility that whoever is reading your README is a novice and would like more guidance. Listing specific steps helps remove ambiguity and gets people to using your project as quickly as possible. If it only runs in a specific context like a particular programming language version or operating system or has dependencies that have to be installed manually, also add a Requirements subsection.

## Usage
Use examples liberally, and show the expected output if you can. It's helpful to have inline the smallest example of usage that you can demonstrate, while providing links to more sophisticated examples if they are too long to reasonably include in the README.

## Support
Tell people where they can go to for help. It can be any combination of an issue tracker, a chat room, an email address, etc.

## Roadmap
If you have ideas for releases in the future, it is a good idea to list them in the README.

## Contributing
State if you are open to contributions and what your requirements are for accepting them.

For people who want to make changes to your project, it's helpful to have some documentation on how to get started. Perhaps there is a script that they should run or some environment variables that they need to set. Make these steps explicit. These instructions could also be useful to your future self.

You can also document commands to lint the code or run tests. These steps help to ensure high code quality and reduce the likelihood that the changes inadvertently break something. Having instructions for running tests is especially helpful if it requires external setup, such as starting a Selenium server for testing in a browser.

## Authors and acknowledgment
Show your appreciation to those who have contributed to the project.

## License
For open source projects, say how it is licensed.

## Project status
If you have run out of energy or time for your project, put a note at the top of the README saying that development has slowed down or stopped completely. Someone may choose to fork your project or volunteer to step in as a maintainer or owner, allowing your project to keep going. You can also make an explicit request for maintainers.
